Changes for June 2013
=====================

This schema uses the new namespace::

    http://www.openmicroscopy.org/Schemas/[NameSpaceTitle]/2013-06/

For the OME schema::

    http://www.openmicroscopy.org/Schemas/OME/2013-06/

and the schema file is located at::

    http://www.openmicroscopy.org/Schemas/OME/2013-06/ome.xsd

BinaryFile
----------

- There are no significant changes to this component.

OME
---

- Copyright information is stored in ``RightsHolder`` and ``RightsHeld``.
- ``SignificantBits``, ``Interleaved``, and ``BigEndian`` attributes have been 
  added to ``Pixels``.
- ``NominalMagnification`` has been altered to allow non-integer values, e.g. 
  0.5.
- A new type has been added to``Filter`` called ``Tuneable``.
- ``Zoom`` and ``Integration`` have been added to ``DetectorSettings``.

OMERO
-----

:file:`OMERO.xsd` is not included in this release.

ROI
---

There are no significant changes to this component.

SA
--

A new optional ``Annotator`` attribute has been added to the ``Annotation`` 
complex type. This makes it available to all other annotation types. This  
attribute is of type ``ExperimenterID`` and can be used to record who created 
an annotation.
It has not been added to the OMERO database as this information is already
available through the permissions system.

SPW
---

There are no significant changes to this component.

Upgrading and Downgrading
-------------------------

The XSLT transforms between June 2012 and June 2013 versions are
available here:

`http://www.openmicroscopy.org/Schemas/Transforms/2012-06-to-2013-06.xsl <http://www.openmicroscopy.org/Schemas/Transforms/2012-06-to-2013-06.xsl>`_

`http://www.openmicroscopy.org/Schemas/Transforms/2013-06-to-2012-06.xsl <http://www.openmicroscopy.org/Schemas/Transforms/2013-06-to-2012-06.xsl>`_

