Changes for June 2007 release 2
===============================

Schema Element (all files)
--------------------------

The schema element now imports the XML namespace from a specific
location. This gets round a problem with using the old XML namespace
which appeared with some XML parsers (notably
`Xerces <http://xerces.apache.org/>`_), causing the schema to not be
valid.

Instrument (ome.xsd)
--------------------

Parts of the ``Instrument`` object are now optional:

-  ``LightSource``
-  ``Detector``
-  ``Objective``
-  ``OTF``

Experimenter and ExperimenterType (ome.xsd)
-------------------------------------------

``FirstName``, ``LastName``, ``Email`` and ``OMEName`` are all
now optional. However, to be valid, an ``Experimenter`` must have **AT LEAST
ONE** of these present. ``Experimenter`` is now a self-contained object and
no longer uses ``ExperimenterType``, which has been removed.

Description (ome.xsd)
---------------------

While there has been no real change to the ``Description`` element, its 
annotation has been altered to indicate a change in its use. The content model 
is currently 'ANY', but this is going to change to 'String'. ``Description`` 
is no longer the correct place for an XML sub-document - ``CustomAttributes`` 
should be used instead.

SerialNumber (ome.xsd)
----------------------

``SerialNumber``, part of ``ManufactSpec`` used by ``Objective``, 
``Detector``, ``Microscope`` and ``LightSource``, has been made optional as 
there are occasions when the writing application does not have this 
information. While it may be optional, it must be stressed that it should 
normally be included, and as such the validator will raise a warning (but not 
an error) if it is not present or is empty.

Regex for LSID / Internal ID (ome.xsd, SPW.xsd, AnalysisModule.xsd)
-------------------------------------------------------------------

There has been a minor change to all the regular expression
('xsd:pattern') portions of the IDs, which means they will no longer
generate an error on some parsers (notably the Java one). This concerned
the way the - (dash) character was specified as part of a URN and is now
escaped correctly.

DBLocation, Label and Parent, parts of Element (STD.xsd)
--------------------------------------------------------

The ``DBLocation`` is now optional. ``Label`` and ``Parent`` have now been 
added.

Description and Label (STD.xsd)
-------------------------------

These now contain a reference to 'XML:lang', which allows the language the
``Description`` or ``Label`` is written in to be recorded.
