Changes for June 2010
=====================

Overview
--------

-  The release has been brought in step with release of OMERO 4.2.
-  Integer types have been made more restrictive.
-  A problem with ``Well Sample Timepoint`` has been fixed.
-  ``Width`` and ``Height`` have been added to ROI ``Mask``.
-  Annotations have been reworked to add new types ('Term' and 'Tag') and 
   allow cross-linking of all annotations.

ome.xsd
-------

-  Integer types have been made more restrictive.

ROI.xsd
-------

-  ``Width`` has been added to ``Mask``.
-  ``Height`` has been added to ``Mask``.
-  ``AnnotationRef`` has been removed from ``Shape`` (``Shape`` is no longer 
   directly annotatable, annotations will be moved up to the ROI level).

SA.xsd
------

-  ``CommentAnnotation`` has been renamed as ``StructuredAnnotations``.
-  ``TagAnnotation`` has been added to ``StructuredAnnotations``.
-  ``TermAnnotation`` has been added to ``StructuredAnnotations``.
-  ``Description`` has been added to ``Annotation``.
-  The list of ``AnnotationRef`` has been added to ``Annotation``.
-  ``Namespace`` in ``Annotation`` is now optional.
-  The list of ``AnnotationRef`` has been removed from ``ListAnnotation`` (it 
   is now inherited from the base ``Annotation``).
-  ``ROI:Shape`` is no longer in the list of annotatable objects.

SPW.xsd
-------

-  ``WellOriginX`` in ``Plate`` has been documented.
-  ``WellOriginY`` in ``Plate`` has been documented.
-  ``NamingConvention`` in ``Plate`` has been documented. 
-  The type of ``Timepoint`` in ``WellSample`` is now an 'xsd:dateTime'.

